added esdt_attribute description and short tutorial in abi page (#736)
multiversx/mx-docs: docs/developers/data/abi.md

        - Struct-like variants, with named fields.

You can read more about Rust enums [here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch06-01-defining-an-enum.html).

---

[comment]: # (mx-context-auto)

## Custom ABI exports

### Overview

Even though the `#[derive(TypeAbi)]` annotation exports all the data types used in the contract along with the type descriptions, we have implemented a manual way to export any kind of data type (used inside the contract or not) in the ABI file in order to fetch it easier from other services (e.g. use-case: the developer can define the type of the attributes expected for a specific ESDT, fetch it from abi and use it easily in the frontend for a more specific result).

Starting with the framework version `0.44`, developers can use the new trait annotation `#[esdt_attribute("name", Type)]` in order to export any data types in the ABI file. 

:::important Important
Please note that it is a `trait annotation`, meaning that it can only be used at trait level along with other `#[multiversx_sc]` annotation. Using it at endpoint level or at trait level outside `multiversx_sc` environment will not work.
:::

> A new field called `esdtAttributes` was added to the ABI file, where developers can find the structs (name, type) exported using the `esdt_attribute` trait annotation. Additionally, each `esdt_attribute` will create a new json file with the name given by the developer (followed by `.esdt-abi`) and containing its exported structs (names, types and descriptions). 

Reviewer: Add a paragraph explaining that the ticker is just a way to identify the idea of a token. We don't have its exact identifier.

Be specific about how only the attribute field needs such an ABI.

> ### Basic types

Reviewer: Call it Example

Let's take the `Adder` contract as an example and try out the new annotation.

> __adder.rs:__

Reviewer: Hint: you can name the code snippets: ```toml,file=contract.rs, looks nicer

```rust
#[multiversx_sc::contract]
#[esdt_attribute("testBasic", BigUint)]

> pub trait Adder {

Reviewer: Minimalism is key. Nothing in the trait body is relevant to this topic.
```
#[multiversx_sc::contract]
#[esdt_attribute("testBasic", BigUint)]
pub trait SomeContract {
}
```

is enough

Reviewer: Also, let's not make it the adder. Just give it some name. This is not about a specific contract

    #[view(getSum)]
    #[storage_mapper("sum")]
    fn sum(&self) -> SingleValueMapper<BigUint>;

    #[init]
    fn init(&self, initial_value: BigUint) {
        self.sum().set(initial_value);
    }

    /// Add desired amount to the storage variable.
    #[endpoint]
    fn add(&self, value: BigUint) {
        self.sum().update(|sum| *sum += value);
    }
}
```

Adding the `#[esdt_attribute("testBasic", BigUint)]` at trait level along with `#[multiversx_sc::contract]` should export a new structure named `testBasic` with a `BigUint` field type. The abi can be generated calling `sc-meta all abi` in the contract folder, or by building the contract using `sc-meta all build` (this command also adds the wasm file to the `output` folder).

Building the contract using `sc-meta all build` will generate the following folder structure:
```
adder
├── output
│   ├── adder.abi.json
│   ├── adder.imports.json
|   ├── adder.mxsc.json
|   ├── adder.wasm
│   ├── testBasic.esdt-abi.json
```

Let's check out the `adder.abi.json` file first. Here we discover the new `esdtAttributes` field, containing the value mentioned in the annotation.

> ```json

Reviewer: I exaggerated a bit. The contract can have an init, so we can compile it. But nothing more, then this ABI snippet also becomes minuscule.

    ],
    "name": "Adder",
    "constructor": {
        "inputs": [
            {
                "name": "initial_value",
                "type": "BigUint"
            }
        ],
        "outputs": []
    },
    "endpoints": [
        {
            "name": "getSum",
            "mutability": "readonly",
            "inputs": [],
            "outputs": [
                {
                    "type": "BigUint"
                }
            ]
        },
        {
            "docs": [
                "Add desired amount to the storage variable."
            ],
            "name": "add",
            "mutability": "mutable",
            "inputs": [
                {
                    "name": "value",
                    "type": "BigUint"
                }
            ],
            "outputs": []
        }
    ],
    "events": [],
    "esdtAttributes": [
        {
            "ticker": "testBasic",
            "type": "BigUint"
        }
    ],
    "hasCallback": false,
    "types": {}
}
```
We can also check the specific json file exported for the newly defined type where we can find information about the type separated from the main abi file.

> __testBasic.esdt-abi.json__

Reviewer: Once again, the snippet name trick.

```json
{
    "esdtAttribute": {
        "ticker": "testBasic",
        "type": "BigUint"
    }
}
```

> ## Composite types

Reviewer: `Using more complex types`

Just give the examples and keep them minimal.

Reviewer: Remember, all types are explained in the section above, this is just about the ESDT syntax.

Now, let's see what happens when we use other types than basic ones. Let's add a `Vec`, an `Enum` and an `Option` to our esdt attributes.

__adder.rs:__
```rust
#![no_std]

use multiversx_sc::derive::TypeAbi;

multiversx_sc::imports!();

/// One of the simplest smart contracts possible,
/// it holds a single variable in storage, which anyone can increment.
#[multiversx_sc::contract]
#[esdt_attribute("testBasic", BigUint)]
#[esdt_attribute("testVec", ManagedVec<u64>)]
#[esdt_attribute("testEnum", MyEnum)]
#[esdt_attribute("testOption", Option<TokenIdentifier>)]
pub trait Adder: module::ModuleExample {
    #[view(getSum)]
    #[storage_mapper("sum")]
    fn sum(&self) -> SingleValueMapper<BigUint>;

    #[init]
    fn init(&self, initial_value: BigUint) {
        self.sum().set(initial_value);
    }

    /// Add desired amount to the storage variable.
    #[endpoint]
    fn add(&self, value: BigUint) {
        self.sum().update(|sum| *sum += value);
    }
}

#[derive(TypeAbi)]

> pub enum MyEnum {

Reviewer: We have an enum section above, `Custom types: enum`

You can add more examples there, but not here.

```
adder
├── output
│   ├── adder.abi.json
│   ├── adder.imports.json
|   ├── adder.mxsc.json
|   ├── adder.wasm
│   ├── testBasic.esdt-abi.json
│   ├── testEnum.esdt-abi.json
│   ├── testOption.esdt-abi.json
│   ├── testVec.esdt-abi.json
```

Each file contains the new struct with its name and the type field's description.

__testEnum.esdt-abi.json:__
```json
{
    "esdtAttribute": {
        "ticker": "testEnum",
        "type": "MyEnum"
    },
    "types": {
        "MyEnum": {
            "type": "enum",
            "variants": [
                {
                    "name": "First",
                    "discriminant": 0
                },
                {
                    "name": "Second",
                    "discriminant": 1
                },
                {
                    "name": "Third",
                    "discriminant": 2
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

__testOption.esdt-abi.json:__
```json
{
    "esdtAttribute": {
        "ticker": "testOption",
        "type": "Option<TokenIdentifier>"
    }
}
```

__testVec.esdt-abi.json:__
```json
{
    "esdtAttribute": {
        "ticker": "testVec",
        "type": "List<u64>"
    }
}
```

> ## Custom types

Reviewer: Struct examples belong in the `Custom types: struct` section, not here

Reviewer: Keep the examples as small as possible, this page can easily grow out of control.

        - Struct-like variants, with named fields.

You can read more about Rust enums [here](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch06-01-defining-an-enum.html).

---

[comment]: # (mx-context-auto)

## ESDT Attribute ABI

### Overview

> Even though the `#[derive(TypeAbi)]` annotation exports all the data types used in the contract along with the type descriptions, we have also implemented a manual way to export data about an ESDT. The structure resembles an ESDT ticker and its attributes' type and gets exported in the main ABI file (and also in separate json files) in order to fetch it easier from other services (e.g. the developer can define the type of the attributes expected for a specific ESDT, fetch it from abi and use it easily in the frontend for a more specific result).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The framework will export all data types found in arguments, results, and events, but it doesn't intrinsically know abut the data that we use in SFT and NFT attributes. This is why there is a special annotation to specify this explicitly.
```

Starting with the framework version `0.44`, developers can use the new trait annotation `#[esdt_attribute("name", Type)]` in order to export ESDT attributes types in the ABI file. 

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name field is an arbitrary name provided by the developer, to identify the token. Token identifiers are not hard-coded in contracts, but it can make sense to use the ticker here, if known.

The type field is simply the name of the type, as it would show up in regular smart contract code.
```

:::important Important

> Please note that it is a `trait annotation`, meaning that it can only be used at trait level along with `#[multiversx_sc::contract]` or `#[multiversx_sc::module]` annotations. Using it at endpoint level or at trait level outside `multiversx_sc` annotations will not work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The annotation can only be used at trait level along with `#[multiversx_sc::contract]` or `#[multiversx_sc::module]` annotations. Using it anywhere else will not work.
```

:::

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exported data will end up in 2 places:
1. In the contract ABI, in a special `"esdt_attributes"` section;
2. In a special ESDT ABI file (`name.esdt-abi.json`), one for each such declared ESDT.

More examples of this below.
```
